content/skills.md, before:

---
title: "My Skills"
author: "Alecks"
---


## Systems & Virtualization
- Build and configured custom pcs (Desktops and Servers)
- Windows 10/11 Installation and setup
- Experienced with Proxmox VE (Type 1) and Virtualbox (Type 2) virtualization
- Docker Container deployment and management on Windows and Multiple linux distros (Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora)
- Troubleshooted dozens of issues with desktop machines and servers (Windows & Linux)
## Networking
- Home network design and troubleshooting (vLANS, Static IPs, Port Forwarding, Wireless APs)
- Knowledge of IP Addresses (Public & Private), NAT, Ports, DNS, Routers/Modems, Firewalls, TCP/UDP
- Setup VPNs/Secure Remote Access (Tailscale, Self-hosted Wireguard) and secure tunnels (Cloudflare Tunnels)
## Linux
- Operated dozens of servers (Bare Metal, VMs and VPSes) running various linux distros (Ubuntu LTS, Debian, Fedora Server, CoreOS)
- Familiar with the command line and various package managers (apt, dnf)
- Daily drove multiple desktop versions of Linux (Ubuntu, Mint, Bazzite, Fedora KDE)
- Familar with general system security (SSH Keys, Fail2Ban, No root login, UFW)
## Web, Cloud & DevOps Tools
- Reverse web proxy setup & configuration (Nginx, Caddy)
- Website deployment using Cloudflare/GitHub pages (Static sites) and Docker Containers (Flask, FastAPI, Express.js)
- Domain/DNS management (Cloudflare & Namecheap)
- Experience with Wordpress on both shared hosting (cPanel) and Self-hosted/VPS (Docker & Caddy/Nginx)
- Maintained lots of vps servers on various cloud platforms (BinaryLane, DigitalOcean, Linode, AWS Lightsail & GCP)
- Programming & Databases
- Intermediate skills with Python, HTML & CSS
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript/NodeJS
- Experience operating MariaDB and MongoDB servers for self-hosted services & small projects

Commit message:

Add context to skills page

content/skills.md, after:

---
title: "My Skills"
author: "Alecks"
---
From my tinkering and natural curiosity, I became familiar with basic IT concepts in networking, Linux and infrastructure at the age of 11. Over the past 4 years I've fallen much deeper down this rabbit hole where my skills have grown exponentially and exposed me to all parts of the software stack.


## Systems & Virtualization
- Build and configured custom pcs (Desktops and Servers)
- Windows 10/11 Installation and setup
- Experienced with Proxmox VE (Type 1) and Virtualbox (Type 2) virtualization
- Docker Container deployment and management on Windows and Multiple linux distros (Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora)
- Troubleshooted dozens of issues with desktop machines and servers (Windows & Linux)
## Networking
- Home network design and troubleshooting (vLANS, Static IPs, Port Forwarding, Wireless APs)
- Knowledge of IP Addresses (Public & Private), NAT, Ports, DNS, Routers/Modems, Firewalls, TCP/UDP
- Setup VPNs/Secure Remote Access (Tailscale, Self-hosted Wireguard) and secure tunnels (Cloudflare Tunnels)
## Linux
- Operated dozens of servers (Bare Metal, VMs and VPSes) running various linux distros (Ubuntu LTS, Debian, Fedora Server, CoreOS)
- Familiar with the command line and various package managers (apt, dnf)
- Daily drove multiple desktop versions of Linux (Ubuntu, Mint, Bazzite, Fedora KDE)
- Familar with general system security (SSH Keys, Fail2Ban, No root login, UFW)
## Web, Cloud & DevOps Tools
- Reverse web proxy setup & configuration (Nginx, Caddy)
- Website deployment using Cloudflare/GitHub pages (Static sites) and Docker Containers (Flask, FastAPI, Express.js)
- Domain/DNS management (Cloudflare & Namecheap)
- Experience with Wordpress on both shared hosting (cPanel) and Self-hosted/VPS (Docker & Caddy/Nginx)
- Maintained lots of vps servers on various cloud platforms (BinaryLane, DigitalOcean, Linode, AWS Lightsail & GCP)
- Programming & Databases
- Intermediate skills with Python, HTML & CSS
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript/NodeJS
- Experience operating MariaDB and MongoDB servers for self-hosted services & small projects
